Bruce C. Miller
Project 3 
10.31.02

1) Intel Pentium I processor
   24.0 MB RAM 72-pin SIMMS
   150Mhz clock speed

2.) FreeBSD 3.5-STABLE

3.) Yes, you can have paging without virtual memory. Without virtual memory,
    main memory must contain all pages of a running process.  This is not the
    case with paging with virtual memory.  With Virtual memory, pages can be
    read in as necessary.

    Virtual memory page size supported in the 3.* distribution of Freebsd is
    4096 bytes.

4.) Yes, the system is using segmentation. Segmentation provides logical data
    units which allows effective handling and protection of data. It divides
    the process address space into sections called segments. These sections are
    based on logical divisions in the program. In FreeBSD the maximum sizes of
    the user data segment and the stack are set to 64MB.

5.) The addressable memory size is 4GB. the physical memory is 24MB 
    with a 96MB swap partition.

6.) Virtual memory is implemented on this system in the following 
    manner:

    Upon boot, and after the bus probe, the kernel starts two processes,
    numbered 0 and 1. Process 0 is the swapper and is responsible for emergency
    clearing of memory when the standard virtual memory algorithms aren't fast
    enough. During normal operation FreeBSD uses the swap partition as virtual
    memory space. It stores memory pages of processes that don't fit into
    physical memory. Swap is used for all pages of virtual memory which contain
    data that is not locked in memory and which can't be recreated
    automatically. This is the majority of the virtual memory in the
    system. Even with light memory loads, the virtual memory system slowly
    pages out data in preparation for a possible sudden demand for memory. This
    means that it can be more responsive to such requests.

7.) included next

8.) included after src 

9.) with VM enabled
    mean: 1386.4
    standard deviation: 388.6736

    without VM enabled
    mean: 1253.45
    standard deviation: 54.98562

10.) No, it does not always take the same time to run the program with virtual
     memory. Execution times vary according to the number of times that pages
     need to be brought into main memory.

11.) There is a measurable difference with virtual memory turned on and off. On
     average there was a 132.95 microsecond difference with the quicker average
     load time occurring with virtual memory off.
